Look.
Outside the window.
At Earth.
It's so dark.
I'm scared.
I can't move.
I don't feel anything.
If I'm aware of that, my head must be
ten billion percent fully functional.
Not bad.
Now, think.
For example...
There should be a delay between
average times of the last posts by area
on sites like Twitter and Instagram.
Find those and calculate backwards,
and we can learn where the
mysterious light originated.
It definitely started in South America.
The petrification beam
spread radially from there.
I would never have thought
to figure it out that way.
I'd love to brag, but I can't take the credit.
My son, Senku, uses that sort of method a lot.
Now that we know that,
it's time to head out.
Hang in there, Senku.
I'm going to save you along with
all seven billion humans.
A Hundred Nights and
a Thousand Skies
Are you really going back to the surface?
You might be petrified
the moment you land.
If you're going, then at least go
somewhere opposite the source.
Like Japan, on the opposite side
of the globe from South America.
If the petrification beam
is like a radiation beam,
you need to stay as far away as you can.
Well, someone's gotta
be a human test subject.
This was my idea, so I should
really go by myself, but...
Then we won't have enough fuel
for the return trip in the Soyuz.
They seat three each, and we only have two.
We need three of us to take the plunge.
Sorry, but I guess I'll need
two more to come with me.
Therefore...
Shamil! You...
There won't be a ground crew to help you.
It'll be an unprecedented landing.
You could even be petrified
while you're maneuvering.
You have a son, don't you, old man?
If someone's going, it ought to
be someone without a family.
Like me.
Eight... nine...
216,000 seconds.
Roughly sixty hours since
I became immobilized.
I have great news and terrible news.
The great news is that we've
landed, and we aren't petrified.
The terrible news is that we missed
the target by a great distance
and landed in the water upside-down.
If we open the hatch,
we'll take in water and sink.
Don't worry.
They lasted for nine hours when
they crash-landed on water before.
Yeah.
But that's the end of our lives.
Five, six, seven...
Count the insane numbers
to keep track of the date.
I have to know the seasons in the
outside world for when I can revive.
That's all I can do right now.
It may be a worst-case scenario,
but I have to do what I can.
We have to go down there and
find a boat to help them.
And where's the key to start the boat?
How many thousands of statues do we
need to pickpocket before we find it?
Even the closest continent—
We'll go help them from the nearest island.
I don't care if it's uninhabited.
If we can't find a boat, we'll make a raft.
Do you really think we can
land perfectly on an island?!
We could be off by as
much as ten kilometers!
Ten kilometers is nothing.
I'll swim the whole way,
fully clothed, if I have to.
Let's calm our breathing.
We have to conserve oxygen.
Limit conversation, too.
N-Na na na na na na na na
You can feel the music in the air
Why are you singing?!
N-Na na na na na na na na
I just said to calm your breathing!
Sorry. But I don't think we'll
need our onboard oxygen anymore.
Sorry it took me over ten hours.
You're not young anymore, old man.
Don't push it.
You're way too much of a risk-taker.
They're back!
Everyone's safe!
That boat was abandoned on
this island furthest away
from the petrification beam.
Which means there might be
survivors on this island.
No...
Oh, shoot.
Why don't we start gathering firewood?
Yeah.
Bingo!
The Soyuz survival kit!
Here we go, the ultimate toolkit.
It looks awesome.
We've been trained really well for shipwrecks.
All right, let's start with dinner.
Oh, I'll go find food, then.
There were farms and such
by that man we saw earlier.
That sounds good.
You got this, Connie-chan.
Okay.
I'll go, too, then.
— 3 Years Later —
Congratulations, Connie-chan, Shamil!
You're married now!
Congratulations!
You look good together!
I appreciate the gesture,
but we don't need a fun ritual.
With the world in the state it's in,
I'm grateful just to be alive.
Oh, come on.
We have to have fun, especially
because of the situation we're in.
There's hardly even any entertainment.
Sure there is.
Music!
I'll sing for the occasion.
What an opportunity!
Diva Lillian!
How far we've come
How much we've changed
A thousand nights and a million tears
Now I can say that I've conquered my fear
If I could go back, what would I tell you
Wish you'd listen to the truth
Till then I'll be patiently waiting right here
Sorry.
I just feel so defeated.
All the music that so many geniuses
spent thousands of years creating...
Mozart, the Beatles...
When I think that it's all going to go away...
It's not going away.
We'll undo the petrification someday.
Promises are kept deep in the heart
Humanity isn't over.
At the very least, I'm certain
that Senku is still alive.
Bells are ringing so loud
Our spirits will never die
Yeah... I'm sure he is.
As long as there is something
worth fighting for
He's your son, after all.
Well, we aren't blood relatives,
but he's my son.
He's ten billion times more
of a hotshot than I am.
We won't give up
He'd be like, "Giving up is the
least logical course of action."
Even if the sky is falling down
So he wouldn't die, even if he was petrified.
Even if the stars crash
and burn the ground
Even if our generation doesn't
make it, he'll succeed.
We'll believe our voice
will reach the universe
He'll save all seven billion people.
We won't give up till the end
We won't give up till we smile again
Someday,
when Senku is revived,
he's going to need friends.
Cuz we're alive
Cuz we made a promise to the world
We're going to pass along the baton.
Thousands of years into the future.
to the world
It's such a weird story that
I have no idea what it means.
Yeah. All of humanity turned to
stone thousands of years ago.
You know those stone statues
we see all over the place?
Those are all humans.
Six people, including Senku's dad,
survived because they were above the sky.
Everyone in Ishigami Village
is a descendant of theirs,
thousands of years later.
Does that mean we're
all related to Senku?
Byakuya and I aren't blood relatives.
So only legally.
Besides, we're hundreds of generations apart.
You can't call us relatives.
Hey!
What are you doing up there? This is your day!
It's a celebration!
We have a new village chief!
You two just want an excuse to drink.
Shall we all go to the feast together?
Drink up, sorcery user!
I'm a science user—
Dude!
Please, Chief.
I'm not the chief anymore.
My apologies.
To think Ruri-sama is a divorcée, though...
It hasn't been this lively in a while.
Everyone's smiling. This is fun.
Yeah! I'm having fu—
We have to guard the bridge.
No fair!
No way, I'm an outsider.
Who gives a damn?
Come drink with us!
Huh? Where's the chief?
The story ends with a
message from Byakuya-sama.
I thought you should be
the only one to hear it.
I figured it'd be something like that.
If we go to the main islands,
we can find antibiotics.
It's our turn to take a risk.
If we don't come home, take care of the kids.
Let's go back home.
It was only pneumonia.
Damn it!
It was only pneumonia!
You look unusually glum, old man.
You said it yourself.
We have to have fun,
especially in this situation.
You're right.
Humans don't need to have fun to survive.
I had fun.
We managed to survive because humanity
had already made it to space.
I know this is only after the fact,
but I never thought I'd have
a wife and kids, either.
I had so much fun since the
day we went to space together.
There's something I haven't
had a chance to tell you.
That day humanity was petrified...
you forced me to have some ramen.
That ramen I had in space...
It was so good.
It was almost hilarious.
Yeah.
Humanity will make it back to the point
where we'll be eating ramen in space.
I'm sure of it.
What's that? A story?
Pearls of wisdom to help
our descendants live on.
I thought I'd make them
into stories so it'd be fun.
That sure is something a former
teacher would think of.
It's hard writing stories in English, though.
You can write them in Japanese.
I want to learn your mother tongue, too.
The Hundred Tales.
Most important is how to manage
food and how to avoid dangers.
Large beasts and such.
We'll want a story about minerals.
Someone might come along who takes
an interest in rocks and collects them.
The Hundred Tales, story number one...
I want them to head to Japan,
where Senku waits.
Just as Byakuya-sama had hoped,
someone took an interest in
rocks because of his stories.
And that's Chrome.
Yes.
The old man wasn't totally useless after all.
This is the village cemetery.
It's said that these are the graves of
Byakuya-sama and the other founders.
They bit the dust 3,700 years ago.
Even if the story was legit,
you won't find a single bone.
And the last of the Hundred Tales,
the hundredth story...
...is a message from me.
Hey, Senku.
If you're listening to this story,
it means you've broken
through the petrification,
maybe thousands of years from now.
I'm doing great.
I mean, I'm already dead
by now, but... you know.
I promised you a science gift,
and that gift is the friends
that the Hundred Tales will connect you with.
The world was pretty fun,
even after the collapse.
With your science and your friends' help,
I'm certain you can build a
world that's even more fun.
You won't lose.
You'll rebuild civilization,
from scratch if you have to,
and you'll save all of humanity.
Senku, I know you can do it.
I'm going to look around before I go back.
Okay.
I'll be back at the village.
Yeah.
I see.
That was thousands of years ago, huh?
That was when I was still
alone in the darkness,
counting hundreds of millions of seconds.
That takes me back.
Man...
That really takes me back.
I would have been screwed
without your science gift.
I'm happy to receive it,
thousands of years later.
No, I only drink cola.
Cola?
I wouldn't be able to talk
business if I got drunk.
Now that the whole village is in one
place, I have a message to deliver.
Yeah, let's hear it, mentalist.
What happened in the Tsukasa Empire?
They're coming.
Tsukasa-chan and his army.
It's finally time to show them the
power of the kingdom of science.
This is exhilarating.
Next Time
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.